Vim RIS Plugin and Syntax
-------------------------

### David Nebauer

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Introduction](#se:introduction)

[Plugin](#se:plugin)

[Syntax](#se:syntax)

[Limitations](#se:limitations)

Introduction
------------

This plugin and syntax provides assistance to [Vim](www.vim.org) users
editing [RIS](www.refman.com) files.

RIS is a tagged file format used to define bibliographic references. It
was created for use in the *Reference Manager* product and is used by
other applications. The canonical specification is that found at the
parent company’s [website](www.refman.com). Unfortunately, it is
incomplete and has some apparent internal contradictions. The
[RefDB](refdb.sourceforge.net) bibliographic application contains its
own RIS specification (see the RefDB manual for details). The syntax
file was created using both specifications.

Plugin
------

This plugin’s functionality is exposed as a series of keystroke
mappings. All mappings (except special characters) are available via the
*RIS* menu (menus can be accessed from console vim — see vim help topic
‘console-menus’).

A complete list of mappings and a short description of the associated
functionality is available by using the ‘\<Leader\>h’ mapping.

The plugin file supplies five convenience commands mapped to keyboard
shortcuts:

\<Leader\>a
:   insert RIS tag (select from menu)

\<Leader\>p
:   insert publication type (select from menu)

\<Leader\>r
:   insert reprint status

\<Leader\>d
:   duplicate current/previous tag

\<Leader\>t
:   add reference template (group of blank tags; choose from three
    templates: journal|book|other)

The plugin has the following limitations: it relies on the shell’s
in-built select command to handle menu selection for RIS field tags
publication types. All bash-like shells have this feature. Vim versions
compiled with a GUI (e.g., some versions of GVim) may not handle menu
selection properly.

Syntax
------

The syntax file enables Vim to highlight legal tags and mark illegal
tags as errors.

It also highlights correct field values, thus helping users to avoid
invalid field values. It checks the syntax of author names, dates and
journal abbreviation fields. It checks the values in reprint and pubtype
fields. It also checks the length of length-limited fields and does some
other rudimentary error checking.

What the syntax file does not currently do is handle line continuations
(‘/\$’) -- it assumes all fields are a single line.

Limitations
-----------

This plugin and syntax were developed and tested on a Debian
Sarge/testing system. They may not work correctly on other operating
systems. Windows users, in particular, are likely to experience
unpredictable behaviour.

If you encounter any problems, please email me a bug report. Even better
would be a patch fixing the problem!
